The Joe Rogan experience.
I didn't even want SNL. I didn't want us to know, uh,
you and I both know that was a, nobody came at it going,
that's the greatest gig. It's very rarely people.
They come out of it. Like they weren't fight it. Absolutely.
Like they just got out of a bar fight.
Exactly.
That's how Phil Hartman was.
When I first started working with Phil Hartman in 94,
he had just left SNL and he,
it took a while for him to be comfortable around us. Like the news radio people,
the actors were super friendly. Everybody liked to get hammered.
That was like the big thing we would get blasted drunk. Yeah.
But we were all like, really,
like in terms of like actors genuinely supportive,
like Dave Foley was the most supportive guy ever.
Like he was always writing jokes for you.
He was always like rewriting scenes for you. Like Jim munch,
come in and say this instead. Or, and he would write like really great lines.
But Phil was like, he look, he was in a competition at first.
He thought like everybody was going to be competitive. Then he,
once he relaxed Phillips smoke weed. And once he relaxed relax, he's like,
you know, going over there, it was like, everybody was like doggy dog.
And everybody's at each other's throats. It's.
Doggy dog it's and there's no rhyme or reason there's no rhyme or reason.
It's just like politics. In other words, I can't help with Congress.
What bill they're going to pass. Even they know,
even they know this is going to work.
Nope. Same kind of stuff.
It's the same exact thing you're fighting to get your bits on. Right.
You're fighting to get your pieces on. You're fighting to get your,
your little sketches on E.
Yeah. And the worst, the worst part is, you know,
something's going to work and you have someone come to you towards the end.
It made me such a dark human being. Cause I I'm the Hey man,
let's all, let's all be team. And I used to,
when I, when I worked with hats, I said, let's look at this roster.
Holy crap. Let's see who goes in the Boston comedy club.
Let's just buy a script and put everyone in it and let them
play to their strength. Wow. You know this one. And I'm like,
I wish I had the business smarts to go back and do that
because you're, it would have been,
it would have been so much fun. I mean, maybe it would have been disaster.
Maybe this guy, maybe I want to end up getting leather pants.
I got my white lion leather pants,
but it makes you so,
you know, I, I don't want to rehash.
The memory. Never got bitter, but you understood that bitterness is an option.
Correct? And I started smoking intense amount of pot. Yeah. Just a number of.
I remember when he told me he quit and he's like, dude, I'm hearing voices.
I think the government's following. You went so far. I went.
Too far.
I let Jim quit. And then I talked to you all. He might've went into never,
never land. He went, he went, he went into the land of no return. Well,
when you start thinking that the government is watching, you know.
The stop nonstop they're on me. Cause they know, I think by myself,
it's like the scene in Goodfellas. Like God it.
Hell it got love that scene.
But um, I will say this. Um, yeah,
I have.
Have you returned to the fold?
I haven't returned the way I have in the past, but a little bit.
But I have, I have, uh, you will never see me.
It's very private.
You have your private weed smoker. Yeah. How's that?
Uh, in other words,
I don't do it with people anymore because it keeps the paranoia way.
Cause I don't trust anyone. I don't trust anyone.
I still don't and I haven't smoked, smoked. I like,
I went down,
I went out to Colorado in the five little milligrams, the $10.
And nice those little edibles fives. Nice.
Yeah. And then have like a martini.
Martini, extra dirty.
Not too dirty. I like a dirty, I like it. I like it. Not crazy dirty,
but a little dirty little dirt.
I liked that olive juice. It's.
Delicious. I do too. So here's what happened, my wife.
This is why, this is why my wife's a powerhouse. She,
when you find someone that don't give a about the industry and they only care
about you, it's very hard. As,
as an artist that's chasing a star does you're always chasing the star and
you're always chasing the mansion. She would go on their forgets. She's like,
why don't you just quit? Like I seriously, are you stupid? You don't quit.
Santa live the hell is she? And she's like, look at you. You come home,
you miserable. They control everything. They steal your ideas.
This one stole. I saw my own two eyes. How they treated you in this particular.
Here we go. I'll give you a show. You don't want to get high first. No.
Let's go take a pee break. Let's taken for you right now.
Here's and again, I've released all this, you know,
I got a strong moral backbone. I'm good.
So no, I don't have any bad feelings. So what happened was,
and I'm not going to put out, I don't want to hash names and all that,
but what would happen is something like this,
you're writing a sketch and then one of the head writers
would come in in the doorway and go, Hey,
I see you're writing a sketch about blah, blah, blah.
Cause we have the main server and we check everyone's sketches.
I've just wanted to let you know, I'm writing the same thing. He goes,
you can continue yours, but you know,
I'm in the room with Lauren. I'm just, oh yeah.
So.
This is that. So they would go onto the server.
They would see the sketches that you're riding. And then.
And then there was, then there was times where
a cast member would come in and look at,
look at my board and go, oh,
what does that mean? I go, oh, that's, that's a, that's a sketch.
And I know so-and-so's come in.
And I know the ratings are going to be high that week.
So I'm waiting to bring my ACE stuff for that.
Everyone's going to come out their fangs out when this one's on.
So I'm going to save that sketch for when they're on.
And then this person would ask me, oh my God, what exactly? I said, well,
I'm going to take it out of its element. You know,
like back then it was like patchy. And I'm like,
pesky is going to read to children about Rudolph the Red-Nosed reindeer and
tell, explain why his nose is red. And the big joke is,
cause he's a rat and I compare it to a whole neighborhood. Yeah, he's a rat.
That's why his nose is red.
And when you got up and so he ended up beating certain kids and blah blah,
the next week,
the whole room is set and,
and you sit in there and then this person, you know, Lauren goes,
[inaudible] was Scarface reading to school,
children Rudolph the Red-Nosed reindeer. And you go, you, you,
you and you look, you see there, their eyes are down, you know,
what's going on? You know what have you can say.
Anything.
Well, when you say something,
which I eventually did tude, I think I may be. And I,
I want to challenge all SNL cast and writers.
I may be the last one that threatened violence I was in.
I was in a room with one of the guys and I literally said,
I will not.
You're T down your throat. You mother.
If you don't be here, get the out. You don't on my.
Cause you don't want to.
Well. And I was, and I told him, I said, I'm knocking the fond,
knock his teeth down. And still I'm not, I'm not from the right and world.
So that's where that plays brought me. Wow.
And so in that particular instance was, see, now I'm getting all over.
That's gotta be coming from the top down because the, when,
when I got alone with Phillip, Phil and I became close and you know,
we would hang out together, especially in his, his dress room,
he had a nice dress room, had it all set up, had a guitar,
was looking at his aviation books and. And, and he would, uh,
we would talk about his time there. And he's like,
it just made me that's bitter and angry. Yeah.
But it seems like it's always been that way. That it's been from the top down.
And.
And this particular is 95 to 98.
So you were on right after field left. Yeah, because I was with Phil in 94.
And so when that person did that,
I then went up to them and I waited and I was like, you.
He goes, I didn't know. I didn't take it. Now.
This one also is getting more airtime because they're in with this specific head
writer. Oh. And then the head writer comes to me. Hey man,
leave him alone. I go, Hey man, stop him from stealing.
Well, you know, I don't care what he does.
Just leave him alone during my sketches, like why you do so you're, you're,
it's like you're in high school. And so yeah. It's,
it's it makes you,
and then I remember doing something where I played
a drunk guy and I didn't know exactly how to do, but I,
I always wanted to be another foster Brooks. So long story short,
I wanted to do another foster Brooks type thing. So I did the character.
I'm not a great writer. I'm not a good writer at all. Um,
but like I'll come up to character and try to eat.
And if we could put it in somewhere great.
And I remember the writer coming up saying, yeah, Lauren,
doesn't like drunks because you know the past and John
and blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, oh, okay. And then two weeks later,
John Belushi, I mean, yeah, I guess that's what he meant.
And then two weeks later, it's the drunk character.
Like what dude, what the F
it just it's little things that mind screw you like that.
So by the time the big,
the big finale was towards the end. You know, someone told me,
you know what Sandler did. Sandlin went through this.
Everyone went through this comedians, go through this.
What you gotta do is get on the update and you gotta get in the, uh,
do everything can to go in the update and everything can opening monologue
because the head writers can't mess with you. He goes, that's,
that's not really that department crazy.
That that's something that you have to think about.
So then that's why I started doing, if you notice in 98,
I started getting more monologues. And then even there, they were like,
we got this. And then it was a final monologue.
It was Matthew Broderick.
And it was when Matthew Broderick was on and he couldn't get
through some of the sketches I was doing with him. He started laughing.
And so when we went to, he really wanted to do this monologue with me.
And this one, these, these particular head writers were like, no,
we're not doing it. Although Matthew was like, I want to do gyms.
I want to do Jimmy Tracy's. And there was two,
three sketches we had together. And he laughed during the dress.
Like he couldn't keep a straight face. And then I remember the head,
this particular rider, a problem with, I never pried stint,
like whatever you had a hard-on for me, whatever. I can't, I don't,
I don't understand ego. You gotta, ego is what it is. And he said, um, yeah,
it's too bad. He laughed because now we don't know for work.
So that's going to be cut. And this cut and you listen,
we filmed the monologue. It worked,
but we're going to go at my monologue during the air show.
I was like, you know, man, I'm going to talk to Lauren. He goes, no, you're not.
I said, no, I'm, I'm talking to Lauren now.
I'm not afraid to talk to Lauren anymore. Cause that's another thing.
It's I get all that. I talk to president dojo, president. They put this.
So that he would say, no, you're not going to talk to Lauren.
We'll talk to him. But no, we'll both. Go talk to him.
And then that's I knew right from that minute I was done.
I knew it was done. And then that summer, this guy named Gary Considine,
he ran the tonight show and he said, Chamath what happened.
I said, what's the matter he goes so-and-so and so-and-so are,
are really same year out. No, really?
I go, well, I'll tell you what, I don't want to be there anymore.
My wife's like, just please quit. She has, you said in your life,
if any job,
no matter how much money it paid makes you a miserable human being and changes
the person. You are, you weren't going to work there. Look at you.
You angry all the time. You smoke pot all the time to numb yourself.
You're not Jim anymore. Where's the goofy, uplifting gym.
And I wanted it to like show stupid, but.
But she was so smart. She.
Was so smart. And it was the greatest.
And I give Lauren a lot of credit because Lauren said to
me, um, Jim,
you're too nice for this business. And he said,
which I'll never forget was a couple of things Lauren said,
and I never blamed Lauren. I always really admired Lauren. I said,
uh, oh, he goes, and if you ever want more than to do something,
I'm your producer, our producer for you,
which I never took that opportunity up,
but I'll never forget when he said that to me.
So I was very thankful that he was understanding. And let me go.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.